cw-website/pages/courses.md, before:

---
title: Courses
---

## Previous and current course content

On this page you will find the syllabi, lesson plans, and slides for current
and past iterations of Computing Workshop.


---

### Past Courses

#### Software - Fall 2018 {#machine-learning}

<iframe class="lp" src="lessons/F18/sw-syllabus/sw-syllabus.pdf"></iframe>

* Lesson 0:
  Welcome!
  ([slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1No5DSVTOAfBVyu0Sxi5tdIdtrPMd7U6rsITYQnueK9o))
* Lesson 1:
  _K_ nearest neighbours
  ([slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1rn4q62LTCXTlGJCQFFCIpGz9xnwZKi1NGnxTsUezE4g))
* Lesson 2:
  Decision trees
  ([slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1KUip52Bvoot7ayMAHcpK3_Pe0SlL8Kar5mECoHIHSGk))

  ([Jupyter notebook on Python basics](lessons/F18/sw-2/python-crash-course-script.ipynb))

  ([Jupyter notebook on decision trees](lessons/F18/sw-2/dt.ipynb))

* Lesson 3:
  Neural networks.
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mjdIchMWsUMWdFBPWetouW9kUKgva0fErlHUi9R4zM8/edit?usp=sharing))

  ([Jupyter notebook on neural nets](lessons/F18/sw-3/nn-script.ipynb))

* Lesson 4:
  Applications of machine learning and coding lab
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nPxfrCoyOjLk6PcI6zP3DEvOpWUSLTci19zRBCewwiI/edit?usp=sharing))

  ([Jhave's presentation slides](lessons/F18/sw-4/jhave-slides.pdf))

  ([Lab resources](/lab.html))

* Lesson 5:
  Unsupervised learning and ethical problems of machine learning.
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dahzC6YTbW-lYf6nqx69S8Pm_TFM64WrwDcaF7Capik/edit?usp=sharing))
  ([POGIL on clustering](lessons/F18/sw-5/k-means-ws/writeup.pdf))
  ([Specification gaming](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/e/2PACX-1vRPiprOaC3HsCf5Tuum8bRfzYUiKLRqJmbOoC-32JorNdfyTiRRsR7Ea5eWtvsWzuxo8bjOxCG84dAg/pubhtml))

---


#### Hardware - Fall 2018

<iframe class="lp" src="lessons/F18/hw-syllabus/hw-syllabus.pdf"></iframe>

* Lesson 0:
  Welcome!
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dfmHvNf-lHQFAkwUlQ92UpAjd7SjuiYi4xnjvChUStQ/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 1:
  Binary and logic
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1E7vCu53vvqF00CHJlvQr_GBDaX4kGw33G6_KvxLBG-Y/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 2:
  Integrated circuits, and the ALU
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Wr165Sk7ABxGHdyIMybjO5VV4ZwEIqNUd7d7Pj2NMT4/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 3:
  Memory and storage
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-Y3xV8i5ZOQZRG5Bojbj4fAhGLlr7twlbJNGc-RIMGU/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 4:
  Processor and machine code
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/144ubTBMUBTgd4rN_nInLVQ-ofp20_tJRE_MkgXgyMrI/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 5: Operating systems
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hehTrS_bif7IcSZ5yxxYBHyq69-VKXZb0oxvZ5OAVkI/edit?usp=sharing))

#### Computing Workshop - Fall 2017

* [Syllabus](/lessons/F17/syllabus/syllabus.pdf)

* [Lesson 0](/lessons/F17/0/plan/0-lp.pdf): Welcome! ([slides](/lessons/F17/0/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 1](/lessons/F17/1/plan/1-lp.pdf): Binary and logic ([slides](/lessons/F17/1/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 2](/lessons/F17/2/plan/2-lp.pdf): Integrated circuits, memory, and Haskell ([slides](/lessons/F17/2/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 3](/lessons/F17/3/plan/3-lp.pdf): Pattern matching, recursion, and the ALU ([slides](/lessons/F17/3/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 4](/lessons/F17/4/plan/4-lp.pdf): Operating systems and Linux ([slides](/lessons/F17/4/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 5](/lessons/F17/5/plan/5-lp.pdf): Datatypes and higher-order functions ([slides](/lessons/F17/5/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 6](/lessons/F17/6/plan/6-lp.pdf): Hamburger Text Markup Language (HTML) ([slides](/lessons/F17/6/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 7](/lessons/F17/7/plan/7-lp.pdf): Web design with CSS ([slides](/lessons/F17/7/slides.pdf))
* Lesson 8: Remedial web development work (no slides or lesson plan)
* [Lesson 9](/lessons/F17/9/plan/9-lp.pdf): Conclusion ([slides](/lessons/F17/9/slides.pdf))

Commit message:

update courses page and reorg certs

cw-website/pages/courses.md, after:

---
title: Courses
---

## Previous and current course content

On this page you will find the syllabi, lesson plans, and slides for current
and past iterations of Computing Workshop.


---

## Current Courses

### Machine Learning - Winter 2019

Computing Workshop: Machine Learning is coming back for another iteration this winter, starting in January and ending
mid-February. To see what past iterations of the machine learning workshop looked like, scroll down to the Software
Fall 2018 materials. If you want to join the upcoming iteration of the workshop, [register
here](https://computing-workshop.com/registration.html). Once the workshop gets going, all course materials will be
posted here.

---

### Past Courses

#### Software - Fall 2018 {#machine-learning}

<iframe class="lp" src="lessons/F18/sw-syllabus/sw-syllabus.pdf"></iframe>

* Lesson 0:
  Welcome!
  ([slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1No5DSVTOAfBVyu0Sxi5tdIdtrPMd7U6rsITYQnueK9o))
* Lesson 1:
  _K_ nearest neighbours
  ([slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1rn4q62LTCXTlGJCQFFCIpGz9xnwZKi1NGnxTsUezE4g))
* Lesson 2:
  Decision trees
  ([slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1KUip52Bvoot7ayMAHcpK3_Pe0SlL8Kar5mECoHIHSGk))

  ([Jupyter notebook on Python basics](lessons/F18/sw-2/python-crash-course-script.ipynb))

  ([Jupyter notebook on decision trees](lessons/F18/sw-2/dt.ipynb))

* Lesson 3:
  Neural networks.
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mjdIchMWsUMWdFBPWetouW9kUKgva0fErlHUi9R4zM8/edit?usp=sharing))

  ([Jupyter notebook on neural nets](lessons/F18/sw-3/nn-script.ipynb))

* Lesson 4:
  Applications of machine learning and coding lab
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nPxfrCoyOjLk6PcI6zP3DEvOpWUSLTci19zRBCewwiI/edit?usp=sharing))

  ([Jhave's presentation slides](lessons/F18/sw-4/jhave-slides.pdf))

  ([Lab resources](/lab.html))

* Lesson 5:
  Unsupervised learning and ethical problems of machine learning.
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dahzC6YTbW-lYf6nqx69S8Pm_TFM64WrwDcaF7Capik/edit?usp=sharing))
  ([POGIL on clustering](lessons/F18/sw-5/k-means-ws/writeup.pdf))
  ([Specification gaming](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/e/2PACX-1vRPiprOaC3HsCf5Tuum8bRfzYUiKLRqJmbOoC-32JorNdfyTiRRsR7Ea5eWtvsWzuxo8bjOxCG84dAg/pubhtml))

---


#### Hardware - Fall 2018

<iframe class="lp" src="lessons/F18/hw-syllabus/hw-syllabus.pdf"></iframe>

* Lesson 0:
  Welcome!
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dfmHvNf-lHQFAkwUlQ92UpAjd7SjuiYi4xnjvChUStQ/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 1:
  Binary and logic
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1E7vCu53vvqF00CHJlvQr_GBDaX4kGw33G6_KvxLBG-Y/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 2:
  Integrated circuits, and the ALU
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Wr165Sk7ABxGHdyIMybjO5VV4ZwEIqNUd7d7Pj2NMT4/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 3:
  Memory and storage
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-Y3xV8i5ZOQZRG5Bojbj4fAhGLlr7twlbJNGc-RIMGU/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 4:
  Processor and machine code
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/144ubTBMUBTgd4rN_nInLVQ-ofp20_tJRE_MkgXgyMrI/edit?usp=sharing))
* Lesson 5: Operating systems
  ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hehTrS_bif7IcSZ5yxxYBHyq69-VKXZb0oxvZ5OAVkI/edit?usp=sharing))

#### Computing Workshop - Fall 2017

* [Syllabus](/lessons/F17/syllabus/syllabus.pdf)

* [Lesson 0](/lessons/F17/0/plan/0-lp.pdf): Welcome! ([slides](/lessons/F17/0/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 1](/lessons/F17/1/plan/1-lp.pdf): Binary and logic ([slides](/lessons/F17/1/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 2](/lessons/F17/2/plan/2-lp.pdf): Integrated circuits, memory, and Haskell ([slides](/lessons/F17/2/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 3](/lessons/F17/3/plan/3-lp.pdf): Pattern matching, recursion, and the ALU ([slides](/lessons/F17/3/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 4](/lessons/F17/4/plan/4-lp.pdf): Operating systems and Linux ([slides](/lessons/F17/4/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 5](/lessons/F17/5/plan/5-lp.pdf): Datatypes and higher-order functions ([slides](/lessons/F17/5/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 6](/lessons/F17/6/plan/6-lp.pdf): Hamburger Text Markup Language (HTML) ([slides](/lessons/F17/6/slides.pdf))
* [Lesson 7](/lessons/F17/7/plan/7-lp.pdf): Web design with CSS ([slides](/lessons/F17/7/slides.pdf))
* Lesson 8: Remedial web development work (no slides or lesson plan)
* [Lesson 9](/lessons/F17/9/plan/9-lp.pdf): Conclusion ([slides](/lessons/F17/9/slides.pdf))
