cw-website/pages/lessons.md, before:

---
title: Lessons
---

##Lesson information and materials

####Lesson 0
#####Introduction to the workshop
By the end of the class, SWBAT:

* 0 Identify the different components of a computer
* 0 Explain abstraction levels in computer science

Instructional sequence:

* 10 mins: Describe the course
* 10 mins: Introduce themselves/their groups|
* 30 mins: Take apart a computer and identify its components|
* 30 mins: Discuss the connection between hardward to software, match code snippings
to different levels of abstraction|
* 20 mins: Planning your dream website!|

Materials needed:

1 - 4 computers to be disassembled

1 - 4 sets of tools to disassemble

1 - ~20 name tags

1 - white paper and colouring supplies


what we need to create:
- slides
- worksheet to accompany disassembly of cpus (ID components)
- matching code to level of abstraction worksheet

####Lesson 1

####Lesson 2
Haskell: Declarations, expression, types
    Haskell as a calculator for taxes, generlize this

####Lesson 3
Haskell: ADT
    194 first homework

####Lesson 4

####Lesson 5

####Lesson 6

####Lesson 7

####Lesson 8

####Lesson 9

Lesson descriptions rough draft

   **Computers:**

1. Taking part a computer, each components purpose
2. What happens when you turn your computer on?
3. Building the heirarchy: fundamental differences between OSs
4. Defining the boundry between OS and applications
5. What is a program?
6. How does downloading a file work? How do browserse work? 
7. How to manage your projects
8. Exploring the online community

   **Haskell:**

1. Basic calculations, getting familiar with Prelude
2. Basic types and values: Char, Int, Lists, Tuples, Maybe - Constructors
3. Types, type classes, kind
4. Functions: make your own functions
5. Functions: partial application, functions as values, modules
6. Functor, applicative, monad
7. Monads and the do block
8. review, problems, abstraction

   **Web dev:**

1. Breif history of web development
2. HTML, an introduction
3. CSS, an introduction
4. Combining the two and Java
5. Hakyll
6. What makes a beautiful website? 
7. Applying differnet website styles
8. Website work

Commit message:

Add to do list in italics at the top of each page
Hopefully this'll help us stay focused

cw-website/pages/lessons.md, after:

---
title: Lessons
---
*to do: change this whole page lol. namely: generate lessons links to lesson
pages which have the lesson plan embedded in an iframe.*
##Lesson information and materials

####Lesson 0
#####Introduction to the workshop
By the end of the class, SWBAT:

* 0 Identify the different components of a computer
* 0 Explain abstraction levels in computer science

Instructional sequence:

* 10 mins: Describe the course
* 10 mins: Introduce themselves/their groups|
* 30 mins: Take apart a computer and identify its components|
* 30 mins: Discuss the connection between hardward to software, match code snippings
to different levels of abstraction|
* 20 mins: Planning your dream website!|

Materials needed:

1 - 4 computers to be disassembled

1 - 4 sets of tools to disassemble

1 - ~20 name tags

1 - white paper and colouring supplies


what we need to create:
- slides
- worksheet to accompany disassembly of cpus (ID components)
- matching code to level of abstraction worksheet

####Lesson 1

####Lesson 2
Haskell: Declarations, expression, types
    Haskell as a calculator for taxes, generlize this

####Lesson 3
Haskell: ADT
    194 first homework

####Lesson 4

####Lesson 5

####Lesson 6

####Lesson 7

####Lesson 8

####Lesson 9

Lesson descriptions rough draft

   **Computers:**

1. Taking part a computer, each components purpose
2. What happens when you turn your computer on?
3. Building the heirarchy: fundamental differences between OSs
4. Defining the boundry between OS and applications
5. What is a program?
6. How does downloading a file work? How do browserse work? 
7. How to manage your projects
8. Exploring the online community

   **Haskell:**

1. Basic calculations, getting familiar with Prelude
2. Basic types and values: Char, Int, Lists, Tuples, Maybe - Constructors
3. Types, type classes, kind
4. Functions: make your own functions
5. Functions: partial application, functions as values, modules
6. Functor, applicative, monad
7. Monads and the do block
8. review, problems, abstraction

   **Web dev:**

1. Breif history of web development
2. HTML, an introduction
3. CSS, an introduction
4. Combining the two and Java
5. Hakyll
6. What makes a beautiful website? 
7. Applying differnet website styles
8. Website work
