q1: what is your understanding of cp?

answer:
When i hear critical pedagogy, I immediately think of pualo freire. I've worked in education for almost 15 years and its
very much grounded in pedagogy of the oppressed and working organically in a community to share power, identify issues,
then have action on those issues. In my world, that has a lot to do with popular political edcuation, but in general and in
any space my understanding of critical pedagogy is about meeting people where they're at, getting a sense of what they
see as their drivers and barriers or limitations, what they're seeking to achieve and work collaboratively to make that
happen.

q2. what is not part of your understanding of critical pedagogy?

In that same framing, all the banking sides of education - rote memory, no application to real life, curriculum that is
geared towards liberal white populations. I work overwhelming with young poc from high poverty communities in NYC and
DC. I think frequently that things that aren't cp are a nebulous catch all that doesn't account for power or think about
how structural oppression operates in regards to knowledge creation. High stakes tseting is a huge example of that here
in NYC and nationally (in the US).

q3: where di you fisrt learn about cp

Thinking back, when I was in NYC teaching fellow at the start of my career in 06, I'm pretty sure it was during that time [I
first learned about cp]. Chapters were introduced to me in my graduate program and while attending the NY collective of
radical educators (which is only radical because it cares about justice, it isn't radical really). That space has study
groups around, and pedagogy of the oppressed is around. I was in an inquiry to action group, which was like a working
group that was centered around critical pedagogy in the arts as I was working in a highschool in the arts.

q4: how you implement cp in your experience. to start, would you list your cs teaching experience

We probably don't have enough time to discuss all of that. Over the past 15 yeras I have been all over the place: public
schools, higher education, non-profit sphere, and so on. I started my career as an English teacher in the Bronx in NY. I
ended up teaching humanities which introduced me to global studies. My current work is very much about global
educational and human rights and a part of what we do is digital learning and leadership in that space. I wouldn't say
I've pivoted to STEM but have opened up my portfolio to include STEM.

q4: given how many examples of critical pedagogy you have in your history, maybe we can keep 2 or 3 examples of your
implementation of cp in cs ed in mind. Describe to me how you implement critical pedagogy in your class and in your
teaching.

I'm going to start with in a narrow place at Global Kids where I head the digital learning and leadership program
because that speaks explicitly to the computational thinking and cs side of my implementation of critical pedagogy. What
we do is a lot of justice-oriented design work with young folks. We meet young people who don't necessarily have an
interest in STEM or tech tools and in our digital learning spaces we introduce them to tools and skills that they can
implement and use to do the acivitsm that is the core of what we do. Our work is really grounded in efforts to
increase civic engagement of young folks and it creates their understanding of politics and international affairs.

What we do here as an organization in our digital learning arm is we use that same pedagogical model but the emphasis is on
tech-oriented learning. For example, we run a program called "playing for keeps" which is a
videogame design program run overwhelming for middle schoolers in NYC. What we do is identify issues that they care
about, such as lead in the NYC public school water, which young people really want to addressed. In one school
there was only one working water fountain in the school. When we started asking them what are the important issues
for their community, access to water was a big one. So the students created a videogame using scratch called "waterwoes"
that takes you through the experience of being a young person who has to run through a maze game in order to get to the
working water fountain without being late to class, being caught by a dean, and other kinds of game mechanics. That's
one examples and we do tons of stuff like that.

Either looking historically or contemporaneously, issues related to
inequity or injustice and we do that alongside the young people. We would never tell them what are the issues they
should cerate their game about and work with them through workshops and other experiences to get a sense what is it that
they care about, such as sexism in basketball, in their shcool, and other justice issues as well. That's a clear example
of meeting young people where they're at.

ANother example is community mapping where we'll go out and walk around various communities to understand what are the
assets in these communities and what chalenges exist in those spaces and question how we can gamify those things to peer
educate and teach others in a compelling way.

We also do things related to VR and 360 videos to talk about sustainable development goals while being grounded in the
lives of the young people we're working with. ALthough a lot of learning is about globoal politics, we'll talk about
sustainable development goals like getting to zero hunger, so we'll talk about the lack of access to food in Yemen
becuase of the crisis, but we'll also talk about lack of access to food in the Bronx. In doing that - making those local
connections - young folks will design, depending on the tool or what the module is, virtual reality videos that take you
through the experience of walking around looking for food in a community.

We use a lot of block based coding because we're not necessarily meeting young folks with any levels of sophistication
around syntax in programming languages although it sometimes happen it is rarely the case.

Critical pedagogy is the foundation of our work.

We do work in girl hack where we talk about issues facing women globally, like forced marrigaes or sexual harrasement,
they will then create a videogames around that. Last year, one highschool group in Manhattan created a maze game that
took you through the subconsious of the woman as she expoeriences compounding instances of sexual harrasement on the
streets and how it affects her self esteem, sense of security, and thing like that. Another example is a program called
"Hanse???" where we create new geolocative technologies (so like pokemon go) geared towards historical knowledge in the
communities. One highschool in Brooklyn is located where Edmons Field used to be and Jackie Robinson would literally
walk around where this school was located. WHen young people learn that did community walks to have a background
where the field used to be and where they used to play, made a video game where you walk around like pokemon go and you
walk on first base as Jackie Robinson playing baseballn (through the game) and are confronted with intense racism and
are given the option on how to proceed: do turn the other cheek? or fight back? You gain points based on your resiliance
and your reputation and the young game designers determin all this: storyline, point factors, characters, goals, and all
the elements of game design. These are overhwleming young ppl who have not necessarily seen themselves as people who are
technologists.

q: how do students to this kind of pedagogy and programs?

they love it there is frequently surprise that learning can be both rigorous and fun - that's hwat we hear all the
time. We're in a position in such a way that we are not exclusively an after school organization but we often occupy the
after school space (we often to do work during the school day as well). We are partnering iwht teahcers, principals and
administrators. Most of this exciting and fun stuff happens in the informal learning pscae after school. Sometimes young
people when they come to after shcool, they really don't want to feel like its heavy content because they just spend a
whole school day exposed to heavy content so we try to gamify things like relay races doing activities and other fun
activities and healthy competition and teambuilding while talking about heavy hitting issues whether that's locally in
the borogoughs or national and internationally like Iran and uranium. We never shy away from the heavy hitting issues
because that's who we are and what we are doing - building a generation of young folks who are civily engaged but we
know very well we need to do it ways that are culturally relevant. The young people really love it - I wish I had their
surveys, and often say things like I didn't know learning could be this fun.

We are continually iterating uon this work for ourselves too and building on our partnerships. We partner with CS4All
and am actually helping to lead their advisory board around critical computing - bring cp and crv to the cs space.

q: fostering critical consciousness: sometimes students require help to become critically conscious. Do you do that as
part of your work? Or are the students already coming to the programs with that critical consciousness?

We definitely develop it with them. We hold the belief that young people are experts of their experience so we know they
know these things because they live them. However they don't necessarily have the language or metacognition to talk
about them so we do a lot of things that are about introducing mutiple perspectives on issues, creating opportunities to
understand various points of view and change your mind. For example we do interactive activies like mythbusting: giving
students a statemenet and get them to place themselves on a spectrum asking if they think the statemenet is true or
false, on statements related to taxes, migration, so on. we try to create learning spaces that are low stakes but deeply
rigourous at the same time so it's ok if you don't know anything about a topic you can still participate to the activity
and get introduced to the zone of proximal develop to these ideas. We've always done this - we will use internation
examples and do international travel in the summer to bring young folks to do conflict resolutions around the world. A
lot of young people who go on these trips come from communities with a history of violence. Their experience grwos
capacity for them to apply wht they learn to the challenges of their own community. We make spaces for them to make
connectinos back to their local community after they learn something broad.

We also do human baromiters on topics where students take a position on an issues like if hackking is ever ethical and
young people debate their views and change their physical and mental positions on these issues after discussion. We're
trying to model what it looks like to evolve yoru thinking and be open to changing your position as you learn more. We
do this a lot of different ways with a lot of different topics. For example for talking about Isreal-Palestine, we get
students to break into groups to do "news cast simulation" where each group is assigned a news outlet like Democracy Now
or Fox News and depending on which news group you are you will tell a very different story. We give the students time to
do research and reading as well as be available for questions and guidance. We use the theatre of the oppressed model to
embody the work which also comes out of Freire and model being news casters. THis makes space for many perspectives on
these complex issues. We do know they come with knowledge and we acknowledge their knowledge. They know their public
bousing needs help and is being ignored - they know that. but they might now have the language necessarily, so we have
them paint pictures to describe what living in that life looks like, what do you need, do you have it, if you don't, why
don't you? who has is? Everything we do is very inquiry oriented with is firmly based in the critical pedagogy
tradition. We're not telling young people what to think, we're asking them what they think.

q: Another aspect of cp I'd like to discuss more in depth is: what are the student teacher relationships like between
the students and the teachers?

One thing we're really proud of is that we actively recruit from the recuit from the communities where the school s are
located. Are staff are relatively young, for the most part under 30, that is the front line staff that are workign with
the young people. They're not so old as to be removed from popular culture, so already there is already
compatiablity. What we beieve and research shows is true is that having role models that look like you are more likely
to succeed in post-secondary eduaction which is exttremely important. At the same time, our educators are really
invtesting in the schools, community, and students. We work from an assets based framework, check in with students and
care for them. We have guidelines like any class would have on how we operate together to establish boundaries. We still
allow space for students to have converstaions with the staff about topics that students might not have the space to
talk about otherwise. That is the something our staff speaks about a lot, such as one staff memeber who is always saying
to me that we are the only people for yuong people to talk about things when big or bad things happen. Making space to
talk about what's happening today or what they saw in the news, and they will say things that they will know that no one
else has talked about, such as violence in their local community. As a result there is a lot of mutual respect and
cultivation of youth-adult partnerships. THere are are still hierachies like chaperoning and making sure young people
are safe, but it's still an informal learning space which is very power.

Frequently the young people will report that it is these educators that they will remember the most and impacted them
the most. Yes it is the leraning and the pedagogy, the trips, but usually it's the poeple that they'll say is the first
thing they will remember. we also hire folks who know more about international affairs but less about youth development
or vice versa and give them the training they need. IN the CS space that's also true. We have hired people with global
affairs knowledge but no cs background and give them the training in using tech platforms like scratch and unity and
vice versa for people without a lot of experience working in teaching. 46.5

48 q. what advice would you give to a teacher who wants to incorporate activism in their teaching from a cp lense?

It's always cycles. This default of praxis, that if you want to do this work, first you need to meet people where
they're at, second to engage in issues they care about while cultivating space for multiple perspectives on these
issues, and three identify what actions can be taken to raise consciousness, peer education, or do policy advocacy, so
on and go ahead and do those things then reflect on them, and the cycle repeats. That is how we operate. We run 5 or 6
week modules over the school using these structures. We have a youth organizing programing here that is not outside the
digital learning space called the human rights activist project. They are in the streets, they go do advocacy work, and
we participated in the march for our lives, climate marches, as well as local advocacy such as NYC's own green new deal
to retrofit high emissions building. They worked on that which passed city council. We've also had students testify in
fornt of city council and the NY state legistlature. These aren't young people who come to us knowning this is what they
want to do. This is the most powerful part. For example, we just ran a one week institutie in houston around energy
policy. In the pre-survey, students felt like they didn't know a lot about this, but in a post survey they felt they
were positioned to be an advocate in what they know. That is what we are trying to achieve. So how to
do it for advice to teachers, don't be afraid of student voices, make space for that (with appropriate guidelines set up
so folks feel safe and heard) and look at good examples - there are countless examples of people doing populist
political education and critical pedagogy work. Out of the NYC Dept of education partnership with CS4ALL we will be
pushing critical computing curricula out that is exactly about where cp and culutrally sustained learning meet cs.


54 what ages are the students you're working with?

mostly middle school and highschool. we are embedded in 2 elem schools. we overwhelming work with 10 - 18 y.o.

And these programs last around 5 or 6 weeks?

they run all school year, but the units of study (or modules) are about 6 weeks each. That's to ensure there is
continued interest but they tend to build on each other regardless. We start with community mapping and photography then
from that we do vg stuff, and from that, we make vidoes, or build a website. These are vertically aligned to scaffold
up. This is still an after school program that is flexible that allows students to come in and out of modules depending
on their schedule.

1:00 any thing else you would like to share with me? Anything you think I should know?

- suggests papers andd reading
- challenges of students moving around - hard to keep track and keep them in the network. sometimes there is a lot of
  housing instability for students. also federal laws, the extent you can track or find a young person. If a young
  person goes to a new shelter, we might only find out too late. keeping students tapped in to the tech education world
  is a challenge.
