interview question 3

# what is your understanding of critical pedagogy

I look at cp as a theoretical and pedagogical conept that is pushing the use of critical concsiouness in applied
setting thru education. Let me think about this... It's taking the cognitive work we do in our heads and putting it in
to practive thru the teaching and learning practice - both individually and at a structural level in schools and
districts.

# what isnt part of your understanding of cp?

Before addressing that I should expand a bit more. when i think of cp, I take some of what Ira Shore's description of
critical literacy then applying it thru concrete ways which is deconstructing the political and social world through
analyzing power. It is to center or prioritize the marginalized perspective of different groups, and it is taking social
action: behavious, words, actions, that we convey, and also at a macro level: the social policy we enact. I think of cp
as unearthing and centering all though different perspectives through the curriculum and through the art of teaching so
what it looks like is encorporating a more community oriented, dialogic form of learning that displaces the tradition
banking model and dose away with the traditional power dynamics between students and teachers. THis borrows from some of
the research of social-cultural learning theory which values and recognizes the meaning making process as mutual with
the learner and the teacher both learning from that process. There are many details what that looks like in the
classroom.

So what is cp not? A lot of forms of higher education learning is through a lecture-regeritation approach and that is
clearly not critical pedagogy because it assumes the expert (professor) knows all the knowledge and the students are the
recipients of that knowledge then giving it back on whatever form of assessment they choose to use. Even if it seems
like a more consrtuctivist, if its just straight regeratation and there isn't any kind of critical, independent
thinking, and don't allow students to bring in their background/experiences into it, then it's not genuinely cp. If
they're not applying this knolwedge through their lense/experience/cultures that they come in with. Sometimes it's
difficult to see cp and determine whether it is or it isn't, just based off an observation of a class. Even if the
students are working collaboratively, or the teacher might be working with the students, coming up with solutions or
ideas, until you dig deeper into the intent, execition, and outcome of whatever it is they're working on, its difficult
to tell whether it genuinely is a demonstration of cp or is simply demonstrating a superficial aspect of what some ppl
might think CP is - which sometimes I think people assume some certain constructivist approaches to teaching is cp, but
they leave out the analysis of power out of the teaching.

# Can you talk a bit more about this "superficial" "psuedo" teaching that some ppl think are critical pedagogy? What
# do you mean by that?

Yea, I think two big proponents in educaton in the past several decades is: heterogenious group work, which is a
positive evolution from the banking model in that students have different roles and responsibilities and they are
gaining the content through some kind of problem based approach to teaching and learning, but often without an explicit
social political analysis of what's happening in relation to power - that's not cp. I can think of similarly, in project
based learning, which is anoother pedagogical move in the last few decades that has been profound in the field of
education - again this method is positive in that it is intersdiscpilinary, it provide multiple avenues for different
types of learners to get in to the content, it is a much more applied basis in terms of possible social action - but
again, I don't hear ppl discuss PBL with this explicit critical consciousness. It can be anything: if they do a problem
based learning around water and the environment in their local community. Unless they go to the level of why is this
water contaminated? Who or what has been responsible for contributing to the contamination of water and how it impacts
certain communities disporportionately - whether it's an indigienous community, or materially poor community that's
downstream from a factory - unless you add that element into it, it's pedagogy without the critical aspects of it.

THis is not to say those are not viable and important contributions to learning sciences - because they are tremendously
and a lot of research out there demonstrates positive aspects of it. But in terms of applying it to a critical pedagogy
lense, the execution often doesn't have this explicit focus on criticality.

# When did you first learn about critical pedagogy?

Specifically critical pedagogy or would you include the other associations with it? Like critical theory.

# Yea, even critical theory, or related but interlocking theories related to cp

I actually first learned about these concepts as an undergrad student in some communications courses. It was probably
from learning and reading some authors from the frankful school (horkhiemer) and also just reading marxist literature as
an undergraduate in both poli sci and communication courses. I also learned about these theories through real
experiences with these elders that are part of a group in college called commities for world democracy, any many of the
elders that were part of this group were former political prisoners from around the world, including CHile and many
other countries around south america. Working with unions also helped cement my understanding of what this all looks
like. but it wasn't until reading pedagogy of the oppressed in my teacher education program after my undergrad that I
really started learning what critical pedagogy is.

# Can you tell me about teaching computer science or digital literacy through a critical pedagogy lense - do you have
# any experience with that and what did it look like?

Yea, so I cotaught a critical media literacy course for teacher eduaction students at UCLA. I think that I, in parts, I
taught it, but not as explicitly as when I taught documentary film making and media arts when I was a hs teacher in
oakland (before I went to grad school at UCLA). During my time at UCLA, I worked at exploring computer science that
focused on bringing more women and black and brown students into the field of cs. I served as a graducate student
research as part of that program for about 3 years, throught that program is actually where I conducted my dissertation
research. The ECS course was an intro course to CS - I don't know it's current iteration, but at the time it had a unit
on HCI, robotics, coding, data sciences, it was very introductory but it was done in a way that was culutrally relevant
and responsive and is very community oriented, constructivist approach. When I really got into it was when I took one of
the units which was to introduce coding to students through scratch, they were taught through the scratch program to
make simple games in order to learn the CT practices involved in coding. I felt that from a critical training,
many of the products when I strated working were getting students to recreate arcade style games or shoot 'em up games,
and I felt like we could use this similar approahc but add in this criticallity into this unit. That's essentially what
I did there and the two semesters I taught this unit. For 3 or 4 weeks before students were even on the computer,
some students would remark about how come we're still not on the computer? why are we learning all this stuff? ANd what
I was doing was developing the foundation fo this critical consciousness of the students I was working with. Since I
hadn't workign with these students before, its quite an undertaking to make them socially and politically aware of what
was happening in their world. From their thoughts, actions, behaviours, to what media they were reproducing and
sharing. I created this whole curriculum where we analyzed the social, historical and political processes that shaped
the way their community is now. This is the south LA region that was dispossessed by various entities and so many of the
students I worked with had to contend with multiple layers of oppression, whether it be classist, racial,
hetero-normative, ableist value system. I was trying to do a lot to support their development of reexamining the world
around them. What I felt the best way to do that was to first delve into a better understaning of the history of their
community - they hyper localized community where they lived. I used documentaries, had them participate in interviews,
had many discussions of stereotypes they have, other people have, and what is the realities in looking at the actual
data of heir community and whether some of these stereotypes are true or not or whether they're biased through dominant
media or reproduction of what they had heard from family members, community members, or messages from people outside
their community. Essentially that was the first step of creating that foundation and lense to question the world. We did
some critical media literacy work in terms of analyzing music, kids videos, music videos, advertisement. This was to lay
the foundation before they even went to coding and scratch. In order for them to develop some kind of product that was
meaningful and critical (with a capital C) to question some issue they felt was important to highlight to the rest of
the world bc the final outcome of this project was to share their scratch project on the scratch platform and so a big
idea behind it was what is your message(s) that is a counter narrative or counter story to what currently existst about
you, your community, your family, or other things. They [the games] were kind of choose your own adventure stories that they created
thru scractch. Some students used actual images from their family, some students redrew images, some used photos from online
where it's a choose your own adventure story where the audience, the player, would be given different scaneraios and
they;d have to choose which outcomes they wanted, and they would lead them to different stages of the story. So you can
imagine, many different layers to form, in terms of story boarding, some did flow charts and decision making tree
diagrams. They really had to think in terms of systems thinking approach to create these scratch products. That was
really my first deep forray of applying a critical lense into CT and CS.

# That seems like it was really rewarding as a teacher and super fun to see these projects.

Yea it was really dope. This was almost 10 years ago now and this is in California, and many of the students come from
immigrant backgrounds, so many of the stories reflected that: what is it like to be an undocumented immigrant, what's
their life like - navigating daily realities, or some other students discussed the realities of growing up in a high
crime community and what are the day to day decision making processes that one has to make - while at the same time,
like you said, having fun while doing it because they're drawing, animating characters or whatever it is, coming up with
stories, all while still learning coding. They're learning many aspects like condition statements, parallel execution,
and like I said earlier, systems thinking. They're briding all these thing together all with the critical mentality.

# How did you raise that critical consciousness while keeping in mind their cultural background? How do you engage and
# incorporate their background in your teaching?

I think that's hugely important. I think there is a gap between folks who are doing work in multicultural ped, to
cultrually relevant-responsive ped, cultrually sustaining ped, and those who are in the critical ped, critical theory
world, in terms of the people who occupy these spaces. Not always - there also is some overlap. Even looking at race,
often I feel like critical folks tend to be: academics, white, educated, then some of the culturally-whatever, culture
link, world folks, they're folks of colour and teachers of colour. I think both - if you think of a venn diagram that
encompasses those two, I think the overlap part, the middle part, is the most powerful teaching because I feel like
sometimes some critical ped folks don't incorporate enough of the unique culturall local, and historical conditions and
realities that the young ppl they're working with deal with. You could be teaching Gramsci, but if you don't house
culturally hegemony, this concept, into the world of social media, you're doing a huge disservice to teens who are
immersed in this world. So how do you bring that concept to that their reality while being cogniscent of their cultural,
historical conditions of colonization or institutional racism and bias, policing and police violence and all these
realities. It's like being atuned to all those things together is what is necessary to me when I think of cp today. It's
being aware of youth cultural practices, whether its digital literacy, social media, and also their
racial/ethnic/cultural history and conditions that they face contemporary and historically. That's what I always do in
the way that I teach. So the work I've been doign at YR for the last 6 years now, when I teach some of those things, I
bring that in and ask them - it's always evolving, culture is fluid - so I recognize that what I might have been talking
about, like soundcloud, now people are talking about tik tok. You still see the same lack of criticallity and cultural
hegemony in both but you need to be able to speak the language of your audience - in this case is with young people

# So how do you do that? As you grow older and culture keeps changing, how do you keep in touch with students>

I think the first step - ever since I was a hs teacher, i've always been interested and I've never looked down on it bc
maybe it's driven by a fear of becoming that "old man get off my lawn" mentality. It's always interesting to me. Even if
on a visceral level I don't necessarily appreciate it in the moment, I try to go through a process of getting to know
myself and engaging in that reflexivity of how is my position now as a 41 yo asian american professor, how does are
those identifiers and my conditioning shaping the way I'm greeting it? If I'm listening to mumble rap, why is it that
right away I don't graviate towards it? But maybe as I learn more and throw myself into it, maybe I can recongize the
very catchy chorus and feel the energy that makes me want to dance. It's about having that critical lense but being open
to different things. I think that's very important. I think that's very related ot my love-hate relationship with
academia, where I never really want to put myself into academia and acadmeic conferences, so I try to have an
intentional balance around who I surround myself with so I don't only interact with acadmeics and PhDs and try and stay
grounded with the community work I do with organizers, activits, and artists so I'm familiar with them. This is in part
why I'm still with YR media and work in schools - I can't genuinely be a powerful/impactful professor of education if I
don't what's happenign in the classroom with young people today. I have a soon to be 11 yo son, and even my son - he's a
little younger than middle school - and I'm constantly trying to understand his interests. He watches a lot of youtubers
of games and gamers and ask him lots of questions, and sometimes watch it with him and ask him questions. Sometimes I
play the games he's playing like clash of clans or clans royale. I could easily be like "that's stupid, silly game" but
as I'm playing I'm emersing myself in the community and that world and see why this is hugely addictive and see the
social component and other aspects. These games, platforms, and tools, and why it's engaging different folks.

# so what advice would you give to someone trying to engage or incorporate student interests and experiences in their
# teaching?

Number one I emphasize the importance of becoming almost a cultural anthropologist of the community you work with,
especially if you are not from that community or socializiation was very different. I spend a lot of time at the
beginning of my teacher education program with my students talking about and engaging in readings and activities where
we have them like follow one student around for a day (including breaks and lunch time) and doing some kind of analysis
of they notice and what they discovered and any preconcinved notions that ran couter to what you expected. Being a
research is similar in that respect, especially if you're researching a group that isn't familiar to you, it's important
to dive in with an open mind to try and understand the thinking and feeling process of another population. That's my
first step. Even for folks who feel like they're part of that community of the students they teach - I've had students
go to the hs where my students teach now - so they had their same teachers in other classes maybe just 5 years
earlier. I emphasize again cultural is fluid, dynamic, and changing. Even what you experience 5 years in the same
school, sitting in the student where yoru students sit now, it could be very different today than it was back then, and
if you don't allow yourslef to be open to that, you have to shut yourself off or create these master narratives based on
your experiences or your lense that can cloud what the experience of your students might be.

# Could you descibe to me when you're teaching cs or media literacy to hs students, could you explain to me what the
# relationship is like between the student and the teacher?

From my studen responses, they feel I'm very warm and I joke around with students, like to have fun - I think it's just
my personality, who I am. I try to be as much of myself and share both the fun stuff and personal things as well. If I
have tough things going on in my life - within professional limits, but even that concept of professionalism went out
the door because of my background, I taught at a small public hs in Oakland and was counter to the difficult, large
comprehensive hs relationships that teachers and students have and that mainly bc of the school itself, we only had 250
students, 9 thru 12 grade, and nearly all of the teachers had strong personal relationship with the students. All of the
typical stuff, like teachers dreading students after school - it was the complete opposite, I looked for opportunities
to see them. If i knew students worked at a certain store, or were going to a certain event, I would go to see them. All
those things break down the tradition barriers between teacher student dynamics. I also became a familiar face to
parents. A lot of this is relted to the culture and structure of the school I taught at which was about building strong
relationships between students and teachers. Students at our school always remarked how it felt like a family at our
school. Partly because we have multiple sibling that would come, I taught many siblings of two, three or more over the
course of my time there. We also had mandatory parent teacher conferences were students would lead the meetings, we also
had several over night retreats throughout the year. All of these thigns built such a strong dynamic that some students
said they saw me more than they saw their parents - in the morning periods, after lunch, and after school. That's how I
was trained as a teacher and how I teach my students who are becoming teachers. So many of the typical challenges and
struggles - like classroom management, which I don't even agree with that term - is eraticated when you ahve a
completely different relationship with students. When you ask a student in a respectful yet firm way - when you're stern
and strict through exuding a loving relationship with students - that's the operating I used when working with young
people. I always asked, how was your weekend, what did you use? And if students are using words or discourse I don't
understand I ask, what does that mean? Then incorporate that into how I speak and they get a kick out of that. All of
that creates a genuine, authentic relationship, and that's what Friere talked about as part of critical pedagogy.

I taught about 8 years in hs, and that was instrumental in becoming who I am today as a person, but also as a
professor. You have to be such a better teacher if you taught k - 12 than as a professor. There is just so much shitty
teaching in higher education it's really sad.

# What's your relationship as a teacher, or professor, to students, while keeping in mind your relationship to knowledge
# How do you envision your relationship to knowledge and how to you envision your students relationship to knowledge?

I'm glad you asked that question. I just finished teaching an intro to research design course to doctoral students, the
first step in engagin in their research process. I got a lot of positive reponses at the end of the course adn I think
part of it is many of our classes are 60 or 70% lecture - even for doc students there if very little room for dialogue
and make meaning of the material. In your class, they said, it was the opposite, you gave us a lot of flexibility and
room to play with these ideas and analyze them together, it didn't feel liek we were being judged for being wrong. Over
the years I have recognized that is one of my methods of instruction in higher education: I give enough space for
students to grapple with the material. Sometimes if they're reading Freire for the first time, there might be
misunderstandings but I don't jump in to correct them right away. I would even say, on a semester level, I definitely
let a lot more go during the first couple weeks, even if I know it's inaccurate with the intention of building community
and trust in the community, between me and students. If I shut them down, no matter how kindly I do it, it already
changes the dynamic and gives the impression: me expert, you novice. I feel like that makes students less likely to
challenge themselves, take risks, offer something in class, and learn as they go. Over time in the course, I get the
students to lead reading activities with the group and let them push concepts in different directions. At the beginning
of the class I model how to engage in these topics, and introduce them to games they can use for activities. After
they've gone through their discussion, I chime in with some of my thoughts and ask burning questions related to what
they discuss. I listen in intently, take down notes and questions, and look for concepts I want to highlight
more. That's the balance with the expertise in critical pedagogy and creating a community. I feel it's been working well
but I'm open to change. At least with this last course, they appreciated that. The feedback I recieved earlier on when I
was teaching was the students wanted to hear more from me, about my experiences related to course content. My initial
reaction was this is your conditioning into what you think teaching and learning is but then I recognized that there are
experiences I have had as a teacher that they want for me to share. THat's why I feel like I've come to a balanced
approach.

# I want to talk a bit more about your experience with teaching cs to students, and you were allowing them to make their
# own stories. Can you tell me more about how their were able to connect their projects to their communities and how
# they went about sharing their voices with their communities?

I didn't talk about examples from YR media, but it's a very familiar style. We forefront their voices, they're so
important. I didn't mention something because it's so common to me: we are working with students of colour with multiple
levels of oppression in their lives. It's in the culture of the space at YR media, where we are producing material
content taht is not the dominant media where we are pushing a different perspective in dope products we produce. For
example, we are producing interactive maps about gentrification, or interactive stories about how juvenile detention
centers are double charging young individuals by both paying for fines and their incarceration which has led to changes
to the county policy about how they are charging youth offenders. The process that we get to this point has to be
centered around helping students value their voice and perspective in light of this dominant media and social media they
see around them, then developing that critical consciousness in what they produce, then thinking deeply about the
possible ramifications and consequences, and positivity, based on what they create. Most of the stories at YR media are
organically produced between youth and adults, which my colleauge coined the term "collegial pedagogy" which is very
related to cp, where the power dynamics are shifts: adults are with youth at every phase of the production process, from
the ideation of the story to the coding to the design of a project. By having them on equal footing when they're at an
editorial meeting, students realize they're not just sitting back while adults change the project. Students ideas are
incorporated in the product and students are constantly asked about the direction of the product. One example, that
comes from about a month ago, is around the Notre Dame fire in France. In the news, immediately millions of people
flocked to help this building. So many youths were astonished that this building, not even a human, had millions of
people responding immediately. Meanwhile you have world wide crisis with people dying and you don't get that
response. That left the students with a paradox and they wanted to do something. They first thought about Jeff Bezos -
richest man in the world. He could just fix these things if he gave a tiny portion of his fortune to these issues. but
we started talking, if we create that act, that just creates this saviour complex, like let's look to billionaires to
fix everything. So then we discussed, how did we get to billionaires in the first place? How did facebook, google,
amazon, get so rich? Just this process is engaging them in critical pedagogy and examaining the world aound them. YR
media is a multimedia production company, we are alwaus thinking about products, not just consuming - we are focusing on
how to become a critical producers. And so many of these students already are - so many are already creating
media with youtube clips, and social media posts - but how do you do it with a critical lense. I don't know if that
answers your question, but I think it's all around in all aspects of what we do, so it's hard to pin point how we relate
their products back to their lives. By working on a tangible product, it's not just about talking in abstract but making
something that allows students to engage in questions liek is this reproducing stereotypes or restricting access.

# Is there anything else you'd liek to tell me or share with me?

I have more of a question for you: could you expand on what your goal/rational is for these interviews?

# Our goal has two major questions: how do CS cp teachers implement this practice in their work?
# and how do they understand their teaching?

I think one part is if you don't have this critical ped or ethnic studies approach to teaching, all subjects, you're
doing a huge disserivce to all students. It's about thinking critically about the content you go over and centering the
cultures and histories and experiences in cp.
