docs/meeting-notes.md, before:

May  14th - mock interview
--------------------------

2. where did you first learn about cp?
re: when i was a grad student taking courses oyse - at u of t
**added**: what was your first reponse -> i felt i was the problem - i had been teaching for a banking model
-> don't ask leading questions, sjust ask what was you first impression

4. **how do you implement your understanding cp in your classes?**
--long answer
re: i don't think i have, certain things associated: teach cs 1 -> uses contextualized projects, has a week - 3 with
student directed classes voting on student topics and interests!, menu of options to choose from (with a brief
description),
    **added question: are there any other ways you partially implement cp?**
    - do a lot of surveying students -> weekly feedback process (mycourses), give them credit
    - makes mistakes in fron tof class a lot ->
    - counter to cp: set myself as an authority. as a young woman i'm not seen as an authority by my
      students. complicated dance of presenting myself increasing social distance while being approachable. a lot easier
      for an old white guy.
    **added question: more pointed questions: did you teach about oppression? power? socipoitical?**
    - i felt nervous implementing social stuff -? expectations of teacher evaluations from students being very negative
      -> "she's too poolitical" this thereatens tenure tracka nd their stuff- > system incentivizing away from that
    - your responsibility in society. if you write code that hurts people, i will take time to tlak about this.
    - bring in quest lectureres that have status they wont get as questioned. -> using other as more authorotative,
      learn what i want you to learn that won't absorb form me

5. **how has the way you taught changed as a result of cp?**
-> redundant!!!

5. **what is needed for a successful cp class/lesson?**
one question at a time!!
re: academic freedom, job security. if you talk about political structures of cs and not get fired.
student evaluations of teaching are not the only form of evaluation: trying to teach students politics matter and
sometimes they're not ready to talk about this. job perfomrance rewards doing what you think is best for the students.
- forgiveness to yourself you're not going to do it all
  - teaching assistants and support. projects with open ended qurstions requires a lot of marking - when you have 1--
    students in your class. you don't need nay TA - you need prepared tas to deal with these questions. ta's just want a
    right answers! these tas are usually trying to climb to the top of the system. time training ta's.
- admin support: if some students relalyl go out of the way to get at you - you need your chair to be helping you and
  supporting you


**added question: what don't you implement for cp?**
- i don't feel like i do enough consciousness raising
- i'm teaching 100s of students, i dont have relationships with them
- one on one relationship necessary for cp - you don't get that in cs.
- contradiction of how i position myself -> authority not on the same playing field
- you need to learn about politics- its' good for you

6. **what were you not expecting when implmenet cp in your xp?**
the degree of student resistance. to a lot of students, cs is apolitical - i'm here to learn how to code not
politics. they don't engage with it and don't care. i'm putting in what i think they should learn about.

9. **describe a really successful cp class/lesson?** -> go neutral. not "best", just any
first one to come to mind: students wanted to learn about how the internet works -> broke up song lyrics and apread them
across the class -> friday by rebecca black, meme-type songs. good vibe: students wants to learn about, everyone was
engaged, no question sabout it on the final so i don't know how much tey learned.
**add** digging deeper-> what about socio-political successful traditional CS class? what's a successful one?
    - one class spend the whole class on it -> bringing it in 5 minutes at a time, applying context and this. more in
      passing than an entire lecture in -> post political acticles online, assiggment where students did a forest fire
      simulation -> climate change

**how do you talk about sociopolitical context in your teaching?**

**how do you teach raising consciousness? if no -> why not?**
- never felt equipped to do it while i was at toronto
  what would you need to feel equipped? a police force that protects

**have you ever had an students change their world and their society? word this better**
- had an open ended project. some would create things that were like making an alarm clock for myself. maybe doesn't
  remember

~~8. to someone looking to teach a cs class with cp, what advice would you give them?~~

May 9th
-------

notes with elizabeth meeting, over phone

sure there are ppl using elems of cp, like cs for social good -- using cp but not
knowing!! finding the researches -- as michael goldweber to find these kinds of
papers.

1 project: classification system of literature
another: talking to people about what they're doing - might be more interesting
project
    - if you were a reporter askign about professors pedagogy - you don't need
      ethics to do that! although jounralists have their own set of ethis
    - don't worry about research ethics yet - don't let it get in the way
    - imagine reporter - what questions would you be asking?
    - 5 to 10 questions - first work on them together - then roleplay!! then
      role play the other way around. roleplaying is good!
    - objective: looking at practioners how are they implementing
    - what elements of critical pedagogy are they implementing?
    - not the critical pedagogy master will implement it
    - suggest i do: brainstorm of lists (rough) of what are the elements of cp
      that i see -
    - for next time expecting: draft list of questions, and a draft list of
      elements of critical pedagogy

Commit message:

meeting with dr howard notes added

docs/meeting-notes.md, after:

May 30th - dr howard
--------------------

talk to ppl outside of the normal schooling -- think techactivist.org!! these
ppl will do real cp bc they work with the communities

why are you doing this research? what's in it for you?

research might go in one of two places:
- bashing ppl who are trying to teach
- commending ppl who aren't really doing cp

-> in conclusion, analysis, worth talking about the feasibility of cp
is it possibel?

May  14th - mock interview
--------------------------

2. where did you first learn about cp?
re: when i was a grad student taking courses oyse - at u of t
**added**: what was your first reponse -> i felt i was the problem - i had been teaching for a banking model
-> don't ask leading questions, sjust ask what was you first impression

4. **how do you implement your understanding cp in your classes?**
--long answer
re: i don't think i have, certain things associated: teach cs 1 -> uses contextualized projects, has a week - 3 with
student directed classes voting on student topics and interests!, menu of options to choose from (with a brief
description),
    **added question: are there any other ways you partially implement cp?**
    - do a lot of surveying students -> weekly feedback process (mycourses), give them credit
    - makes mistakes in fron tof class a lot ->
    - counter to cp: set myself as an authority. as a young woman i'm not seen as an authority by my
      students. complicated dance of presenting myself increasing social distance while being approachable. a lot easier
      for an old white guy.
    **added question: more pointed questions: did you teach about oppression? power? socipoitical?**
    - i felt nervous implementing social stuff -? expectations of teacher evaluations from students being very negative
      -> "she's too poolitical" this thereatens tenure tracka nd their stuff- > system incentivizing away from that
    - your responsibility in society. if you write code that hurts people, i will take time to tlak about this.
    - bring in quest lectureres that have status they wont get as questioned. -> using other as more authorotative,
      learn what i want you to learn that won't absorb form me

5. **how has the way you taught changed as a result of cp?**
-> redundant!!!

5. **what is needed for a successful cp class/lesson?**
one question at a time!!
re: academic freedom, job security. if you talk about political structures of cs and not get fired.
student evaluations of teaching are not the only form of evaluation: trying to teach students politics matter and
sometimes they're not ready to talk about this. job perfomrance rewards doing what you think is best for the students.
- forgiveness to yourself you're not going to do it all
  - teaching assistants and support. projects with open ended qurstions requires a lot of marking - when you have 1--
    students in your class. you don't need nay TA - you need prepared tas to deal with these questions. ta's just want a
    right answers! these tas are usually trying to climb to the top of the system. time training ta's.
- admin support: if some students relalyl go out of the way to get at you - you need your chair to be helping you and
  supporting you


**added question: what don't you implement for cp?**
- i don't feel like i do enough consciousness raising
- i'm teaching 100s of students, i dont have relationships with them
- one on one relationship necessary for cp - you don't get that in cs.
- contradiction of how i position myself -> authority not on the same playing field
- you need to learn about politics- its' good for you

6. **what were you not expecting when implmenet cp in your xp?**
the degree of student resistance. to a lot of students, cs is apolitical - i'm here to learn how to code not
politics. they don't engage with it and don't care. i'm putting in what i think they should learn about.

9. **describe a really successful cp class/lesson?** -> go neutral. not "best", just any
first one to come to mind: students wanted to learn about how the internet works -> broke up song lyrics and apread them
across the class -> friday by rebecca black, meme-type songs. good vibe: students wants to learn about, everyone was
engaged, no question sabout it on the final so i don't know how much tey learned.
**add** digging deeper-> what about socio-political successful traditional CS class? what's a successful one?
    - one class spend the whole class on it -> bringing it in 5 minutes at a time, applying context and this. more in
      passing than an entire lecture in -> post political acticles online, assiggment where students did a forest fire
      simulation -> climate change

**how do you talk about sociopolitical context in your teaching?**

**how do you teach raising consciousness? if no -> why not?**
- never felt equipped to do it while i was at toronto
  what would you need to feel equipped? a police force that protects

**have you ever had an students change their world and their society? word this better**
- had an open ended project. some would create things that were like making an alarm clock for myself. maybe doesn't
  remember

~~8. to someone looking to teach a cs class with cp, what advice would you give them?~~

May 9th
-------

notes with elizabeth meeting, over phone

sure there are ppl using elems of cp, like cs for social good -- using cp but not
knowing!! finding the researches -- as michael goldweber to find these kinds of
papers.

1 project: classification system of literature
another: talking to people about what they're doing - might be more interesting
project
    - if you were a reporter askign about professors pedagogy - you don't need
      ethics to do that! although jounralists have their own set of ethis
    - don't worry about research ethics yet - don't let it get in the way
    - imagine reporter - what questions would you be asking?
    - 5 to 10 questions - first work on them together - then roleplay!! then
      role play the other way around. roleplaying is good!
    - objective: looking at practioners how are they implementing
    - what elements of critical pedagogy are they implementing?
    - not the critical pedagogy master will implement it
    - suggest i do: brainstorm of lists (rough) of what are the elements of cp
      that i see -
    - for next time expecting: draft list of questions, and a draft list of
      elements of critical pedagogy
